"Tonglen practice is that even others are more important than ourselves. And with that, or myself,
dahi yamba and dahi jiva, and dahi jiva, dahi yamba means we are equal, we are all equal, dahi jiva
means exchanging our situation as it is.
And dahi jiva, dahi jiva means others are even more dear than my own son. That all is added to the
bodhisattva, according to your capabilities and duties that you have.
There are so many beautiful stories of this dahi jiva that even others are more dear than our son.
There are a lot of stories of our great teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni's former lifetimes, that how
many times? He exchanged his own life to bring the joy and peace to others, others more dear than
himself.
In the teaching said, one time, the Buddha Shakyamuni was born as king, known as Bhimaji, or the
lord of stone. In his reign, big disease came, and he tried to cure those diseases, and he called
the doctors many times.
And he called the doctors, and doctors said, there is nothing that can help this disease except one
fish, fish. And the fish is called ruhita in the teaching said, nya ruhita, nya ruhita meat will
only help to cure the disease of this, disease of this.
And the Buddha taught, how I can do that. He told, now that means, I am going to become the nya ruh
ita. He said, I am going to become that fish.
He said, in order to save all these beings from these unquirreable diseases, may I born as the fish
ruhita, in the cholung dozi, river dozi, river.
And he jumped from his bodies, and he jumped from his bodies, and as his wish, he was born in the n
ya ruhita.
In the teaching said, then nya ruhita called, everyone, those who like to cure the disease,
sicknesses, come to me, take my flesh, and my flesh.
And then Prabhupada's king came and told his flesh. In the teaching said, the upper part of the
body is cutting those flesh, and then he turned up to collect more, in the other side, flesh comes
back, back.
And through that way, endless, everyone woke. And everyone been so kind, and so, so appreciative,
so appreciative of this fish, how what I can do.
He was such a great king, now born as like this, and a cruel disease, and then he said, I don't
need anything, anything, but all do ten virtuous practices, ten virtuous practices, and that they
did, in the teaching said.
And then there's another story, again, in the story that, I mean, there's many, many beautiful
stories like that.
How Buddha gave as many lives to the other beings, really. And one time, again, I mean, in the
ocean, in the teaching said, that again, Buddha, these martians went to the ocean, and the ocean is
completely carpeted, and this Buddha was born as like big sea turtles, sea turtles.
And then, and the Buddha said, come to me, come to me, hold to me, hold to me, I will tell you the
same shows, same shows.
And all the martians or those goers on the boat came to the big turtle in their hold, all that hold
, that title, and ocean drive, and the show.
And then Buddha, that turtle brought everyone to the show, show, and after that, the turtle had
been so tired in the teaching said, he falls asleep in the right, that ocean, show.
We need to fall asleep, but when we wake up, wake up, there's 80,000, 80,000 symbols, or the air
sectors, I think, in the symbol get up and the teaching said, the biting him, biting him everywhere
.
He thought he'd go to jump to the river or ocean, but he thought, oh, if I jump this whole time, I
'm not going to jump.
This is my time to use my, this body. I use this life so many lifetime without any purposes, but
this is the time I'm going to use, this something benefit.
But when I'm going to dedicate this merit to becoming enlightenment, when I become the
enlightenment, may I can share my natural, downward teaching, force to this, this being.
And then the Buddha take and say, that's why when Buddha give the rich enlightenment, enlightenment
at first time, when he start giving the post teaching in the Sarnath, Sarnath, the poor noble truth
, five human beings, 80,000 selection beings, 80,000 selection beings.
This 80,000 selection beings in Buddha say, there are those who are biting him, and because this
God is going to hit the dead as it, pass these teachings.
Those all are stories. All are the stories and that all are the teachings. How powerful, how
important, how special to do these exchanging practices.
So yeah.